# As an Engineering Leader

I am very persistent, a highly creative problem solver, and very good with people. I listen well, I can discern underlying themes, emotions, and situations. This means that I can surface issues and risks early, identify true needs and requirements, and understand people to help them do their best work.

I have a diverse set of career experiences to draw upon, I have worked as a consultant, a systems administrator, a software engineer, a software tester, a project manager, a product manager, an engineering manager, an engineering director and VP of Engineering.

I am comfortable wearing many hats, I can switch roles as needed and I can combine skill sets together seamlessly. I can also take the point of view of most everyone in a product development organization. Amongst multiple different outcomes this means I can empathize and understand what each person is trying to accomplish, this enables me to synthesize these multiple POVs while leading projects, meetings, discussions and retrospectives. I am also comfortable talking to and tailoring my communication to both C-level execs, customers, engineers, operations folks and so on.

I have studied the science of software and product creation, as well as management and leadership. I draw upon a large set of working theories to inform my management and leadership practice. For example when thinking about inspiring engineers I lean on Dan Pink's work on motivation, the AMP (autonomy, mastery, purpose) triumvirate. When I dig into software development management I think about Don Reinertsen's work on Product development flow, this means thinking about batch size, cost of delay and a range of economic and operational concerns. When I think about engineering I lean on years of being an engineer and also think about Eric Raymond's work (The Art of Unix Programming), Andy Hunt and Dave Thomas's Pragmatic Programmer book series, or I will think about Design Patterns and design language. Over the last few years I have been studying personalities to help me better understand people, I really like the Big 5 personality traits and find that a killer combination of traits looks like high openness, conscientiousness, and intelligence. I am also a good judge of character and temperament and can judge a person's grit and values fairly quickly.

I have a deeply Agile mindset and have been using Agile methods for software development for 20 years. I have studied the topic of Agility deeply and I use Agile thinking and methods developed by John Boyd (the OODA loop being his most widely known work) to great effect. I use Scrum or Kanban as needed and have worked at larger scale using the Scaled Agile Framework.

I understand design and design thinking, while I am not an expert I can lead design sprints (think IDEO, Google, or Dschool design sprints) and I am very good at defining and helping teams to define MVPs for different scenarios and competitive environments. I excel at asking questions to find real needs and leverage methods like: Jobs to be Done (Clayton Christensen), business model canvases and many other mental models to evaluate both problems (love the problem…) and solutions.

I have years of experience leading teams at different business/technical scales. I can lead teams starting at small scale, and have years of experience moving from small scale systems up to extremely high scale systems. This includes going from MVPs to highly available (99.999% availability) processing billions of emails per day with sub 5 second latency.

I excel at coaching early career engineers to be highly capable engineers. One of the favorite parts of my job is hiring fresh engineers and growing/guiding them to be amazing software engineers. I value people first and foremost, this means I always put people first.

I learn fast, I am a big picture thinker and very strategic. I think of myself as a geek general, I can take ideas and intentions for products and delivery them over the course months and years, pivoting, managing and improving as needed. I have a proven track record of doing this, time and time again. I am maniacal about return on investment, so I focus on making smart bets (think barbell strategy à la Nassim Taleb), buying information and making data driven decisions.

I am rigorous, methodological and process driven. I don't believe in process for its own sake, but when you are building an ecosystem for delivering technology based products you have to be thoughtful and discerning in how people work, what tools they use, how they are measured, and the approaches taken. I mentally model most systems now as complex systems, so I am very thoughtful with regard to how people interact with their environments (boundaries) and processes/doctrine (attractors) in order to achieve the coherence I want in terms of culture, practices and results.
